SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: Best Off-Campus Housing Without a Car
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_007

TITLE:
Best Off-Campus housing w/ no car?

ORIGINAL_POST:

For Fall 2024, No car is my biggest concern because I know there are shuttles but I bet some run more often than others.

Price is not biggest issue, though value for money obviously matters.

Only other points for me specifically are I will be taking downtown classes and noise, which seems to be a problem everywhere :(

I'm probably going to get a bike or an electric scooter, I might be driving by then but I'm planning otherwise because I doubt it

Any answers or input appreciated !!

COMMENTS:

Pikachu4646:

Probably Knights Circle, Plaza or Northgate Lakes, just off of proximity to campus

rhundln:

Knights circle will probably be your best for proximity to campus, but highly recommend an apartment towards the back/walking to the back bus stops if possible in the morning. When I lived there, I couldn’t even get on the shuttle while living in the front phase because of how packed it was.

lukeisun7:

I did my entire degree at knights circle with no car. Instacart was a blessing

[deleted]:

Instacart? Bro there are two grocery stores literally across the street, it's a 5 minute walk.

lukeisun7:

I ordered from Costco, I prefer bulk buying. That Indian grocery store is wasn’t always there either

[deleted]:

Did you literally never have fresh food?

LongviewToParadise:

Carrying large items like jugs of water/apple juice from Publix to your unit by hand is generally not feasible unless you have your own personal cart.

[deleted]:

You have running potable water you can filter and juice is loaded with sugar.

Frankly the most annoying things I ever need to buy are paper products, but it's really not that big a deal.

sacred_night:

Northgate lakes. I lived there as a full time student for a while with nothing but a bike. As far as downtown classes go, there’s a downtown express shuttle free to ucf students that runs every hour on weekdays

FloridaTwinkHunter:

Orion on Orpington

adrianmonk01:

shuttle to school and complex is behind a publix

FloridaTwinkHunter:

Yes

funnystupidvirgin:

I don’t have a car and live at The Aves. It’s the best place in my opinion. There’s a street to enter UCF directly across from it and the street is more central than other streets you may encounter.

Almost every stop has 2 shuttle buses, but I would personally allocate 30 minutes if you plan to ride the shuttle (Shuttles wait ~10 minutes and then you have to walk to your destination).

I have a bike and never ride more than 15 minutes (not including stops for traffic).

Single-Ground-2675:

Hi! im seriously thinking about signing with the aves, would you be open to sharing your experience living there?

funnystupidvirgin:

There’s good & bad for sure. As far as student housing goes I do think it’s one of the better options available, but the prices are actually getting unnecessarily high. The hallways/stairwells are often dirty. Security (gates) is moreso an illusion + nuisance than a reality. I don’t feel unsafe though. The parking garage is an accident waiting to happen. It’s a relatively small community so I feel like it’s easy for the maintenance/leasing staff to be in your business which I don’t appreciate. I also hate the apartment checks but I think that just comes with the territory.

I have heard about roaches/silverfish (have seen both) but no infestations personally.

The maintenance reply/resolve issues pretty quickly. The rooms are a good size. I have a walk-in closet, which I really like. Having a balcony is cool, there’s also no carpet which is a big plus for me. The study rooms come in handy. There are 4 pools. There are 2 gyms and they’re both decent. They just got some new machines but a ton of the treadmills don’t function properly.

I will admit my experience has probably been on the better side compared to some, but I wouldn’t know.

Overall, I graduate in 6 months and I can’t wait to be out of here. But it’s definitely not a bad place to live.

[deleted]:

[deleted]

[deleted]:

Knights Circle or Knightshade.

Acceptable-Parsnip-9:

I’d say knights circle but it’s too late to sign up as they’ve sold out of leases for this year

SwingingAlong:

I really love the lofts! Its pretty quiet and the shuttles have been amazing!

lacklusterpeach:

Thanks for everyone’s input! Will edit this comment when I decide for those interested/ others like me who kept searching this exact question :)

More people feel free to keep adding their own experiences! Felt affirmed by my original interest in KC but alas, it is sold out, so I shall keep researching

Connect_Contest8035:

Hello, I’m in the same boat as you. I was interested in Knights Circle as well and I have no car. Have you applied to any apartments yet?

lacklusterpeach:

So I was a bit silly and I felt like I needed to move out after my first year immediately, but I'm going to apply for both the Towers lottery and the staying-in-my-same-dorm lottery when those starts

I did though narrow down Orion as what I would applied to though as the second best option after Knights circle, as it showed room prices under 1000 (I refreshed the page once and it went down from like 970~~ to the 800s lol) and overall seemed like good value for what I was looking for! Northgate seemed good too but it's pricey

I wish us both best of luck :)