SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: Choosing Between Mercury 3100, The Lofts, and The Hub
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_008

TITLE:
Which off campus housing should I move in?

ORIGINAL_POST:

Hello!! I am an incoming transfer trying to find good off-campus housing. I am between three so far and I'm a bit of an over-thinker and really afraid I'll pick the wrong one and be locked in.

Out of these three, which would I pick? I am a very outgoing person and would like a place with active vibes, also clean, and I can't do roaches!!!

• Mercury 3100, The Lofts, The Hub.

Thank you!!

COMMENTS:

ADuckNamedLiz:

Not in the options but based around them and pricing I would suggest plaza! I really had a lovely time there. A lot of people are subleasing and offering discount on rent so that’s a plus!

Odd-Chip6512:

Ahh!! I was going to tour that place today but I didn't have enough time. Were your utilities included?

ADuckNamedLiz:

I lived in a 4x4 and with the utility allowance I payed around 40 bucks per month. I lived in the 5th floor so roaches were never a problem in my unit.

GotegaSenpai:

If you aren’t looking at the price tag, I would recommend Plaza, Accolade, Aves (2x2), Arden (1x1 & 2x2), and the Nine

Please avoid housing that don’t have elevators.

I currently live at Plaza and not going to lie, i did have roaches in my second unit. Pest control and my home remedies drove them out immediately

Strawberry1282:

Arden (at least from what I’ve always seen) doesn’t have elevators. I’d say plaza is actually way more maintained than Arden. Everyone I knew there moved in for the price and huge rooms and moved out from bugs galore and crap management. There’s a lot of issues lurking post hurricane water damage even with the “renovations.” I’m not trying to be negative but I don’t know one person there who didn’t have an extreme bug problem lol.

Nine is newer so more luxurious but has a lot of management issues. Feels more slapped together.

Aves is hit or miss depending on your unit. Location is great. Ik some people with bugs. Everyone ik there hates the leasing office.

Accolade is usually considered the best of all these listed. It also tends to be the most expensive. As someone who lived at west, it’s decent. East is pretty much the same just smaller. Luxury amenities but was on the rowdier side. The front main building is way better maintained than the others. Parking situation is overpriced and a shitshow. Some people (myself included) have had issues with bugs but it’s not as bad as other places. We had a lot of issues with homeless people getting into the buildings and key fobs on doors breaking that they had to address but it’s less frequent now. Location is amazing as far as being by campus and walking distance to places.

jayde-hall:

I know abt 5 people and the 2 workers who live on site and are also students at Arden who said inspection comes in twice a week and they’ve gone under new management and renovated and everyone I have spoke to since signing is nice and great communication!!!

Defiant-Kangaroo-352:

the accolade west has silverfish all throughout building 5

Saturn_6688:

Don’t do Plaza is you don’t like roaches lol. Plaza is right above restaurants, and that attracts a lot of critters.

I recommend Northgate Lakes or Tivoli. The Loft could be good. I stayed at Northgate for my last 2 years of college. It’s quiet, directly across the street from campus, with Publix down the street within walking distance.

Don’t do Plaza, don’t do Verge (TERRIBLE), and don’t do Lark. I wouldn’t even do Mercury 3100, it’s kinda raggedy over there lol.

Odd-Chip6512:

I toured northgate today and tbh I didn't like it, the rooms smelled weird and it seemed really small. Also yeah, I have heard BAD things about The Verge.

Saturn_6688:

Mmmm, well try Tivoli. It’s by Northgate. I never been inside the apartments but it seems okay over there. Unless someone knows different lol.

Strawberry1282:

I have friends that live at Tivoli. There’s no elevators. The apartments for the most part are on the run down end so I wouldn’t expect luxury. You also need to buy furniture and it’s not individual leasing which brings a whole other level of risk vs individual leasing student housing.

SilverMight:

While a lot of people mention per unit leasing being potentially risky, I think it's worth mentioning much more expensive a per person lease is as well.

A 4x2 lease at Northgate is more expensive than a 2x2 at Tivoli. You pay the premium for that guarantee.

Strawberry1282:

Oh for sure. Though tivoli also brings the higher cost of incurring furniture and anecdotally everyone ik there has a decently $$$ electric bill.

Definitely a matter of just vetting roommates for the best bet. The issues tend to be along when people go with randoms.

ThePurpleTrashCat:

I wouldn’t recommend lofts tbh. It’s way over priced for the way they treat tenants.

Odd-Chip6512:

Could you explain? It was one of my top choices

ThePurpleTrashCat:

If you’re pet free it might not be so bad but don’t bring an animal here. Also theyre always doing some sort of construction (I wear earplugs and still can’t sleep through the noise, yesterday morning they started taking chain saws to trees in front of peoples windows at 7:50am). They demand access to your apt unit and bedrooms on a monthly basis but won’t narrow it down except sometime over a week from 8-6 m-f, and if you have a pet they demand you lock them up which isn’t helpful when I’m gone half the time and don’t know when they need to be in my bedroom where my pet stays. The fire alarms go off if you use anything other than the microwave (we found the trick to using the toaster was to place it under the microwave vent and put the fan on high anytime we want to use it. You definitely can’t use the oven without setting them all off.) maintenance guys are good and prompt so they do get points for that. But for $1200 a month it is not worth the stress I’ve felt living here. They got rid of free parking for residents. The “events” they have for residents usually fall far short of anything but pitiful. They force you to pay for an awful mail service (Google fetch and read the reviews) and they take a pretty long time to put normal mail in the boxes so everything you have sent to you will take extra time to be delivered. The front office lady retaliated against my roommate for trying to report an issue. Idk dude I’m just done living here and cant honestly recommend it to anyone. Do what you gotta do but if you find a better place, I would recommend to choose that one.

Also, my other roommate has been here longer than I have told me this place has really started sinking faster the last few years so that too.

Odd-Chip6512:

Yeah, I toured there again today and I think it'll be a no for me!

Suspicious-Egg68:

I know some people have recommended plaza….. but im here to say find something better. Roommate had a bed bugs problem upon move in because the carpet was infested with them (while they dont have carpet anymore and renovated it to hardwood its a little better). Its EXTREMELY LOUD. Roomed right on the corner above bar louie and it was constant yelling from bar goers, cars with no mufflers on the streets, and constant police sirens. All of the three sounds only got louder as the night went on. Not to mention the elevators…. It may seem nice to have an elevator in the apartment complex until it breaks every month and you have to walk 5 flights of stairs with heavy groceries. Not to mention the multiple times both the parking garage and apartment elevators were broken at the same time. Dirty hallways and overall unfortunate parking situations. The parking garage constantly has speeders that cut the corners way too fast, im surprised i havent gotten hit yet.

TLDR: this place is way to expensive for the type of apartment you are paying for.

Strawberry1282:

I lived at hub (granted a few years ago) and loved it. The only big cons imo were they didn’t have 1 beds (for when I was ready for my own space but you’ll always get your own bedroom and bathroom just in a roomie situation) and it’s further from campus. On the flip side location was great as far as being walking distance to a Publix and restaurants.

What’s your budget and is there anything you’re looking for as far as amenities or vibes? Hub is the nicest and newest out of those you’ve listed but there’s since been newer complexes.

Odd-Chip6512:

My budget is around 1,100 at the max, the Hub definitely seemed nice. They're doing deals right now below my budget so it seems good. Have you heard the lofts? I liked them a lot, and they were more in budget. For amenities, I don't really care, as long as its nice. I cannot handle bugs, that's a no. I also would prefer a place that's not dead or quiet, but also not loud 24/7.

Strawberry1282:

Lofts is a lot older so you’re going to have a higher chance of bugs. Also the units open to the outside (so bugs can kinda fly in through the front door kinda vibe) vs at hub which is indoor hotel style hallways. IMO hub was also a lot safer because the buildings are all connected in terms of not having to walk outside at night for if you want to go to the lobby, study rooms, etc. It was gated and you needed a key fob to get into the elevator or like every amenity. I’ve had friends at lofts who ran into some safety issues and a lot more complaints of bugs and mold. The only bugs I really had at hub were a few silverfish (those I can semi deal with lol) but I will say I was on the top floor. Ik some people on the lower floors who had more of issues. It’s from 2018 so it’s getting a little up there in age now.

If you want quiet at hub I’d recommend not getting a pool view. There’s only 1 pool so it can get louder on the weekends or if there events. To be fair he’s hopefully/probably long gone by now, but there was a guy who’d bring a giant speaker on wheels to the pool when I was there where I could hear it from my room on the top floor with the window shut. I got the impression lofts was always a quieter complex from my friends who live there because hub had more of a wannabe influencer vibe.

To be fair loudness and cleanliness wise does come down to luck of the draw with your neighbors and roommates. I’d possibly put more stock in the roommate matching program wherever you sign too.

Odd-Chip6512:

Alright thank you!! I'll think about the hub!

tryhuggingme:

Mercury is pretty good cuz they have good sized rooms and the unit itself is pretty spacious. Slight problem with raccoons outside but I never had a problem with roaches.