SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: Which Off-Campus Housing Should I Choose?
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_010


TITLE:
WHICH DO I CHOOSE

ORIGINAL_POST:

hey guys, i’m looking for off campus housing, and i know each one will have their own bad reviews but which is really the best? and which ones should i avoid? please help i’m overwhelmed. i feel like i find a promising place and then i read a bunch of horrible reviews and im back at square one.

edit: budget is around 1k and i’m mostly looking for a 4x4. PLEASE SHARE YOUR EXPERIENCES

it seems that knight’s circle, the station alafaya, orion on orpington, and the accolade east are my possible top choices right now.

COMMENTS:

Strawberry1282:
I had a good experience at hub and accolade

What’s your budget? A lot will boil down to that

Outrageous-Fly-4629:
Avoid Aves at all cost. Lots of homeless roam around the area, we recently had a car get broken into along with gun shots due to a guy owing a dealer money. I'd stay away and go for something new like the verve. Nicer amenities and better location

deebster2k:
Verve is almost definitely pricey.

vaango143:
the pointe and knights circle are too of the top ones!

FoxyLood:
do NOT do northgate. our unit was dirty on arrival and management is bullshit here

took them 3 weeks to come in and fix our heating during the cold front and then 2 weeks to replace our microwave

SnooPaintings6443:
Mine was dirty too! And my AC broke like four times it was like 84 degrees in the apartment for a few days

deebster2k:
I had better luck with Northgate. Though their complimentary coffee machines were usually having trouble every 2 or 3 weeks for a while

Though I find it annoying they make you pay extra for a service to report to the credit bureaus when they should be doing that themselves.

FoxyLood:
not to mention how they lied about amenities basically

Left_Rub2062:
i stayed at accolade collegiate village east the past two years. it’s expensive but we had no bug or mold issues, management responds fast and no other issues that are common issues at other apartments. also a 10 minute walk to campus or you can take the shuttles provided which come regularly. very pricey but worth it in my opinion. and the building is only 2 years old.

Little-Drummer-4541:
would you say east is better than west? or are the more or less the same

Left_Rub2062:
they’re more or less the same, easy is just closer to campus so walking from there is easier, east is also way smaller so it’s a shorter walk to your apartment if that’s something you’d want to consider

Strawberry1282:
West is bigger. Technically I believe has more amenities. If you live west then try and live in the main building (where the leasing office is) versus the back where it's less maintained + louder bc closer to the Greek ghetto.

Sad_Ferret_8165:
Knight's circle is way nicer than I was expecting. I’ve lived in the two older sections of units, and the only trouble I had was with non-biting ants on the first floor. They were mostly harmless outside of being a nuisance, and a couple of weeks of leaving bait traps along their path and they were mostly gone.

It is one of the pricier places around, but maintenance comes quickly without a fuss, you get your own room, and I’ve never had an AC break or mold issues.

Ok-Maize-7553:
I love everything here except for feeling like I live in a cave lol. 0 natural light for most of the living room. That’s not even that big a deal tho. Love it here

patty202:
The Pointe was good for us.

ConfusionContent6857:
i’m gonna have a lease available at the pointe for fall 2026, $925 a month for a 2x2. it’s nice, ive had no bugs other than the occasional silverfish/small spider. maintenance always comes fast. 2 pools. plenty of parking. i don’t mind it.

microwavedtardigrade:
The restricted income communities were asking my 1.3k for a 1bed 1bath without a washer and dryer. We're all suffering out here. I've been homeless 2 years and UCF doesn't gaf

Educational-Ad5861:
Hey, are you male or female (or other I don’t wanna assume)? I’m looking to release my room! I currently pay $652/month on rent, and about $100-130/month additionally for electric, gas, water, and wifi! My place is behind Waterford lakes, so only 10-15 min from campus. It’s a two story, 4 bed and 2.5 bath with a fenced backyard and garage.

duncan-the-wonderdog:
Not OP, but how soon are you moving and how long is the lease? I'm also female, if that matters.

Educational-Ad5861:
The lease is open to renew every year, starting July 8th. I am able to give up my lease end of June though if you needed a little sooner.

stubbornorc643:
Tortuga bay

Ok_Toe_3313:
hated knight circle (albeit probably nicer than other spots depending on the roommates) loved loved loved tivoli, it won’t be the fanciest and also not a 4x4 but if u can find someone to sublease with, you’ll likely be around 700-800/month, it felt the most homey for me personally

Educational-Ad5861:
I’m looking for someone to take over my room in a 4 bedroom, 2.5 bathroom house located right behind Waterford Lakes in Bradfordt Village. The room I am looking to give up is the largest bedroom on the second floor. I am looking to release my lease end of June or beginning of July.

The available bedroom is upstairs and shares a full bathroom with one other roommate whose room is also on the second floor. There is a third upstairs bedroom, but it’s mostly used for storage. There is also a half bathroom downstairs, and a master bedroom with its own full bathroom.

The upstairs loft/common area would be shared between just 1 other, and you’d have plenty of freedom to store items or decorate the space however you’d like

Rent Breakdown

• $652/month base rent

• Approximately $100/month for water + gas/utilities

• Approximately $15/month for WiFi

Key Features

• 10–15 minute drive to University of Central Florida and Valencia College

• Large fenced backyard

• Large kitchen

• Wood floors

• Garage + 4-car driveway

• Street parking available

• Walkable distance to Sprouts, Target, and CVS

• Message me if interested or if you’d like more details/photos!

purplerain219:
The Lofts is very nice, no issues for my Knight and his friends, in case that's an option?

Revolutionary_Milk60:
The village at science drive is great. Takes backroads to campus. Much quieter than apartments that are actually on Alafaya. Great floor plan, would highly recommend.

SnoopyJohnson2:
First lesson: ask your friends. Network. Be open to what’s available. If none of your friends are looking for an off campus place, make more friends or ask your friends if they have a friend.

Why am I saying this? A good roommate (and friend) will make or break your college experience.

If you get reply’s to this post, invest in a casual lunch, dinner or coffee with the person.

In short, you should be looking for your ideal roommate(s) first - then the roof over your head.