SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: Off-Campus Housing Budget and Transportation
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_003

TITLE:
Off campus housing

ORIGINAL_POST:

Hello!

I am a new student at UCF looking for off campus housing. What apartments would you guys recommend? My budget is $800 as of now. I don't have a car, only a scooter. I prefer if there's a gym as well.

Is the bus system good at UCF? Is it timely and reliable? Please share any tips and tricks for me because i have never lived in orlando before. 😊

COMMENTS:

purplerain219:

I think somehow you're going to have to increase your budget... and getting an apartment can be pretty competitive. Check out the Lofts...my Knight lives there, it's safe, clean, and on the UCF shuttle route. He's had a blip here and there with the shuttles but overall it's been great (he doesn't have a car either). Good luck! I hope you love UCF.

Strawberry1282:

The shuttle bus system is fairly reliable. The local bus system (lynx) is not known for being great with respect to safety and efficiency.

Does your budget include extras like utilities? If so, that makes it even harder. Most student complexes charge around $1000/mo in base rent just for one person to have their own bedroom and bathroom in a 4 bedroom where you’ll have 3 roommates.

The cheapest student complexes are campus crossings, boardwalk, and Arden villas. Don’t expect anything luxurious. Lark, lofts, pointe, and knights circle are also on the cheaper side. Pointe is probably the cheapest reliable one, especially if you get a 4x2. Can’t speak on if any of these are $800 area.

Tivoli is known for being cheap, but it’s not typical student housing. It’s not individual leasing (so you lose a huge safety net) and isn’t furnished. They do have a Ucf shuttle though.

Sginger-:

Hi, I was checking the UCF Off-Campus Housing website and saw many places that are under $800 and close to campus. Are these just the base prices, and will charge more than $800 later? Because I saw everyone on reddit saying housing is more than that

Strawberry1282:

It might not be updated to reflect current rates. Most places trend towards $1000. Make sure you’re checking the actual complex websites where you can file for the lease.

Most charge for base rent but there’s extra fees for utilities, parking, etc

Sginger-:

Thank you so much, I'll make sure to do that

Weary_Mind5565:

College station is 800 a month. Thats the cheapest you’ll find unless you do a shared house

