SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: UCF Off-Campus Housing
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_006

TITLE:
UCF Off-Campus Housing

ORIGINAL_POST:

My daughter is starting her senior year of high school and will be attending Valencia next fall. We've been looking for student housing that would allow her to live close by. We called about The Plaza on University, and the website looks great, but I've seen some negative reviews here on Reddit.

Is Plaza really that bad? Are there other recommendations in the area? I'm not worried as much about the cost since all of the student housing is a lot cheaper than the ridiculous cost of regular studio or one-bedroom apartments in the area. I just want to make sure she lives somewhere that's safe. Is there anything newer/nicer in the area?

Also, my husband called American Campus, and they claimed that we should apply for housing for next fall in August of this year. Is that right? It seems crazy that we have to apply for housing a year in advance, but this is my first time dealing with college housing, so we really have no idea what we're doing.

COMMENTS:

Fl-Ant626:

If your daughter will be at the Valencia East campus, there is a brand new complex right down the street from campus called Vale East. It's less than a mile to Valencia campus and about 7 miles to UCF.

dkrk17:

Apartment complexes usually start leasing out for the next lease period around October/November and the earlier you sign, the lower your rent is, so I recommend signing as early as possible. UCF has a MASSIVE student body so spots fill up fast and they raise prices after so many units are filled. I personally never lived in plaza but I know a lot of people who have and honestly, there's nothing really wrong with it. Any apartment complex in the area you look into will have bad reviews. Why, you may ask? Because it's student housing. The area is mostly college students so it's generally safe but there is no guarantee for anything anywhere so as long as your daughter follows general common sense safety precautions, she should be fine. I've lived in the area for 3 years, and I've never felt unsafe (a female without a car who often walks places alone).

The advantage of plaza is 100% location. Campus is right across the street, there are a bunch of restaurants just downstairs, there is also a shuttle to campus that goes back and forth regularly (although I find it faster to just walk).

poodlesNbweer:

Whatever you do, stay away from Campus Crossings.

Substantial-Ear-678:

can i ask why? just curious

Substantial_Rip_184:

They're known for trapping residents in disgusting units and adding a lot of hidden fees and complications when someone wants to cancel their lease

shnicki-liki:

College housing is uniquely quite doodoo at UCF cuz it has a huge student body and is in a underdeveloped area.

JeromePowellAdmire:

Not saying it isn't bad but certainly not unique; there is such an acute housing shortage in the Bay Area that some freshman are forced into dorms with 6 people in one room.

[deleted]:

Management at plaza is a mess but it's been a great unit and place to live. I'd recommend but sometimes it's luck with the success you have

poppyalyssa:

Vale east is right next to Valencia and is very new and usually fills up the last out of all the campuses!

Bone-of-Contention:

I second the recommendation for her to apply for housing this fall. With UCF being as large as it is housing fills up FAST and it's only gotten crazier, the supply doesn't meet the demand and the price gets jacked up. I didn't live at Plaza so I can't comment there.

When I was there the UCF affiliated apartments had shuttles to UCF and then you could shuttle to Valencia from the UCF campus. I was a UCF student who took classes at Valencia and used the shuttle to get there since I wasn't as familiar with Valencia, it was super safe and easy and helped me save on gas. I'm not sure if all of the affiliated apartments have the shuttle or not.

MindlessSoup2:

Knights circle is where it's at.

MindlessSoup2:

Also knight circle is reasonable priced and super convenient for everything

Sarcastic-Mermaid:

Is that on campus housing?

No-Application-4535:

Yes it is also affiliated with UCF, in such case that roommate issues occur they have an RA that can intervene. And UCF police also has jurisdiction there if safety is of your most concern. 😊

Merplogic:

Gym is great, pool is great. Staff is nice and maintenance is decent. Type of People who live there kind of suck. (Lots if parties so sometimes it was impossible to get anything done) They will milk you for every penny on utilities and the garage is a pain in the ass. Friend has someone hit her parked car and run. The staff wouldn't let her see the footage from the garage.

Sarcastic-Mermaid:

I saw on the website that it's $25-50 extra for garage parking depending on if you want a reserved spot. Is it not worth the extra money? I figured it would be a better option but I honestly have no idea.

My daughter would definitely be one of the loud kids. Her entire personality is just loud, lol. Living in a place like that would drive me nuts but she would most likely thrive with a lot of activity/noise. She really likes the idea of being able to match with a roommate beforehand since she won't know anyone.

Whenever they open the applications for next fall and we apply, are we immediately accepted for an apartment? I guess what I'm asking is whether we need to apply at several places to make sure she has a place to live come next August. The lady at plaza told us they normally open applications in October but they might open as early as late August this year, which is nuts but I don't want to lose out on housing.

Merplogic:

It's 25 per month to park your car in the resident spots and I'd recommend that if she has one because there is only 1 floor for guest parking and it's almost always full. The 50$ is for a reserved spot with a number and it's on the floor the garage connects to the buildings. Not worth it in my opinion, but some people prefer it so it's personal preference.

For the application, the earlier you are, the better. We signed a lease super early without any issues but spots fill up fast. They'll tell you if the apartments are full or not. If they aren't full and you finish signing a lease you should be fine.

Sarcastic-Mermaid:

Ah okay, I didn't realize you sign the lease during the application process. That makes me less nervous. I was thinking we'd wait months before we'd have an answer.

Substantial_Rip_184:

I recommend Tivoli, the point, and boardwalk. Those were my top 3 when choosing a place to live near ucf. The only thing is that Tivoli is unfurnished, but the price reflects that.

theamester85:

UCF has a housing shortage. We are short 1300 beds for transfer students and freshmen. It's insane right now. Some folks are on a waiting list and aren't sure if they are going to secure housing for Fall. Folks attending SSC Oviedo, Valencia East, and Full Sail are probably going to be in the same boat.

poodlesNbweer:

Wait are you serious? They actually having a housing shortage?!! Holy cow. Back when I was looking for a room near main campus, Facebook had dozens.

theamester85:

UCF housing is full. I've heard from students they are having issues with affiliated housing and some folks are looking up to 30 minutes away. A handful of students said they found a room on FB marketplace, but those could be for a sublet.

JeromePowellAdmire:

The university itself has built no new on campus housing since 2007 and only Northview off campus in 2013; meanwhile, how much has the student body grown? A lot more on campus housing is needed, and such housing would also "relieve pressure" off campus housing aka force them to not be able to exploit a housing shortage.

Tennis121897:

almost 70.5k population as of Fall 2020

Impressive_Month1228:

One thing that i would say is YES GET IT IN AUGUST! housing goes normally by october and november so to get the housing that you want definitely sign asap. And the plaza isn't great since it's always busy. The villages is owned by the same company and is a lot more quiet.

Sarcastic-Mermaid:

Thanks for the info. My daughter was actually drawn to the plaza because of the location/potential for social events and parties. I love my daughter but she is not quiet and has a big personality. Though I will probably get her a nice pair of noise canceling headphones just in case. 😂

jimmothyhendrix:

Just get a letter so you can live anywhere

ThrowawayEnvy72:

Just don't have her live at Riverwind

WarLord791:

From personal experience, most students love to complain about the smallest of things. Most of the time it seems to come from entitlement. But that's my opinion. I have friends that lived at the plaza and they loved it, just a little on the expensive end for their budget. If security is something that you're worried about and don't mind the extra cost, I would look for a place with a closed gate that checks in who comes in. Some examples that come to mind are knights circle and the point.

In terms of applying, it is never too early, with the increase in numbers of students, it is much better to secure a place before it's too late.

I hope it helps