SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: Best Off-Campus Housing
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_002

TITLE:
Best off-campus housing?

ORIGINAL_POST:

I am an incoming freshman (just finished orientation today!) but I want to get a jump start on next year. If I’m not able to secure on-campus housing, what is the best off-campus housing area in your experience?

COMMENTS:

SwingingAlong:

I've really enjoyed the lofts! Maintenance is friendly and fast, no problems with the office, and the apartment is very cozy and nice. I'd probably recommend getting a renovated apartment if you can though because the older one isn't nearly as nice.

cupcake4007:

I could not stress this enough, do not live here. Overpriced and they’re just now lowering floor plan prices because they’re struggling to sell out. Amenities suck. I had a 4x4 renovated loft and it was so dirty and cheaply renovated. It is very cozy considering the rooms are only big enough to fit a bed, dresser and desk. It’s only worth living there if you get the biggest bedroom in the floor plan. Maintenance is amazing though they’re so nice.

SwingingAlong:

aww man :( Im sorry urs sucked. I had a 2x1 so maybe its tighter for yall

Fathoms_Deep_1:

Highly suggest Village at Science Drive. Good apartments, price is high but isn't too bad compared to the higher end apartments. And you have to only pay $35 a year for parking.

I would avoid Nine at Central. Overpriced, prone to flooding, parking is a nightmare, they don't have enough spots for all residents and they charged you $55 a MONTH to park

Useful_Particular830:

It really depends on your budget. I lived at the Plaza on University and it was nice and had a lot of amenities but it was also super close to the school. Just a little more on the expensive side.

Madden-Mobile-Master:

I second this. The gym and pool area are super nice and they got hella restaurants within walking distance. Also the shuttle. Just try and get top floor cuz the walls are kinda thin

SnoopyJohnson2:

Another up vote for Plaza on University. Just last month they completed a renovation as well.

ImMrLlama:

Knight Circle was really nice but it sells out quick, avoid the Verge at all costs

JimbleNipple:

What’s wrong with the verge

ImMrLlama:

I could’ve just had a bad experience but here’s what I had to deal with during my 1 year stay:

Upon move-in day:

• Apartment reeked of weed (I don’t really mind but still off putting)

• There was a hole punched into the first door you see on your left

• There was a fishing bucket on the washer that was catching a leak from the ceiling, the bucket was like 85% full when I saw it

• Once I got into my room, the window was stuck partially open, the blinds were broken off on the floor, the fire detector was hanging off the ceiling with no batteries, no hot water in my shower (all of these were fixed like 3-4 months after I moved in)

During my stay:

• LOTS of cockroaches dead and alive

• The leak comes back every so often and it takes maintenance at least 2 weeks to even check it out

• Mold develops on the AC vents

• The community pool, while it looks nice, is filled with bacteria and not properly maintained

• My tub in the shower was painted over and would peel every so often revealing a very gross, brownish, tinted under layer

• Rent is pricey for the quality of living, and you have to pay for electricity

There’s probably more i’m not thinking of but it’s pretty bad. I’m glad to be getting out of here this month!

Strawberry1282:

Don’t expect to secure on campus housing again.

Best is subjective to budget and desires. Expect around $1000+ where 1000 is the price for a bed and bath (they price per room) with 3 other roomies. Some of the newer complexes are skewing around 1100-1200 a month for the 4/4s. Price goes up with less roomies. A 1 bed is around 2 grand.

Everything is a gamble. Your unit could be a mess but it’s perfect next door.

[deleted]:

I’m living at The Quad this fall! Obviously can’t give a solid review quite yet, but so far I really like the place and the amenities. More importantly, the price is very inexpensive in comparison to most of the other housing options nearby

Annual-Beautiful-635:

I’ve had one of the worst living experiences at the quad. The maintenance people have no respect or decency. I had a squirrel problem in my bathroom and it broke through my ceiling. Roommate matching is a joke. This is the one place I would recommend to STAY AWAY FROM.

Bunniculazzz:

I can't agree more. I don't like my roommates at all and one's even at risk of getting kicked out after TWO YEARS of her scaring off tenants. It's super dirty, walls are thin enough to feel like I'm going to break into the other unit just by leaning on the wall, it's right next to a school thing that blocks the entrance to the complex from 2-3:30 every day, and it is farther from campus than ideal. I will say maintenance in my experience has been timely but them along with management just let themselves into your house from time to time if no one answers the door. Some of the management team is nice and helpful but the others can be creepy and/or super rude.

[deleted]:

I rent out a house with friends and in my opinion is way better than any apartment complex and cheaper

ManBearPig2022:

I liked Northgate. Kinda small but super close to the uni

MegaMewthree_:

Same. I think its definitely one of the closest. I'm living there now and will stay there until I graduate.

JoeFssh:

Newer establishment, but the accolade is great! They just opened a second location called The Accolade Collegiate Village East. I live at the West, and I love it. East may have more spots available, and also, since it is brand new, you’ll be the first one to ever be in your room! It’s a little pricey, but worth it!

Strawberry1282:

I’d build on this with a different accolade opinion. As far as Accolade West - their location is great. Amenities are nice (study rooms on each floor is my fav) BUT I wouldn’t say I love it. Not horrible don’t get me wrong but I’d have higher expectations for the price. Know that as far as accolade west, if you don’t live in the main building you have to walk to the main gym, courtyard, mail room, etc. The shuttle stop only picks up in front of building 1.

• Could definitely be unit/location dependent but I’ve experienced a lot of bugs, a dirty unit upon move in, and my neighbors have had similar problems.

• Some units that have the shower only w no tubs (though apparently this is getting fixed at East bc they’re getting shower doors) are prone to flooding.

• Their management is interesting at times to say the least. Building 1 had a broken front door from August up until WELL into the spring semester. The complex would just put duck tape over the broken glass. Homeless people were sleeping in the study rooms, knocking on doors, and going throughout the building. Anyone could just walk into by where the rooms are since you don’t need a fob for the elevator.

• A handful of homeless people loiter around building 1, sleeping in the hammocks, and in the back by the dumpster. Haven’t personally had issues but it gets uncomfortable at times, esp if you’re a girl at night.

• Parking is per month and it can be hard to get a spot near your building.

• The wifi can be atrocious. It goes out for hours at times. My friends that use the same WiFi company at apartments across the street don’t have the same problems, we get the impression accolade has a wiring problem or something. In spring sem it was out fairly solid even in finals week and only worked at like 4am. Hasn’t been as nearly much as an issue in summer but it definitely still has gone out.

JoeFssh:

Some of these issues I haven’t had, due to me being at building 5. They do have a mail area for us, a mini gym in building 5, a clubhouse in building 4, and other amenities, but they definitely have had issues getting their stuff together. Internet was my biggest issues once in a while. West and East are great location wise, west is a little farther but has more stuff around it.

The homeless thing is new to me! I haven’t noticed any of that. But that definitely is a safety issue they should fix.

A lot of issues accolade I’ve seen have, are similar to other places issues. None of the places are perfect to be fair. Hopefully they learned from last year and plan to fix it

