SOURCE_TYPE: Reddit Discussion
SUBREDDIT: r/UCF
TOPIC: Apartments That Aren't Ultra-Modern / Luxury Student Housing
DOCUMENT_ID: reddit_ucf_housing_009

TITLE:
Best "not too modern looking" off campus near UCF?

ORIGINAL_POST:

Me and my friends already toured Northgate Lakes yesterday and that's our current pick, but we want to have backups. I've heard mixed things about the Aves, so any other recommendations would be appreciated.

Edit: meant to say off-campus apartments in the title

Edit 2: recommendations must offer 3 bed 3 bath floor plan

COMMENTS:

tryhuggingme:

Mercury 3100.

urlcvrgirl:

What's your budget? I'm in a 3x3 at Mercury right now and I haven't had any issues with mold or bugs. Plus the WiFi is pretty good and the rooms are spacious in my opinion.

[deleted]:

The Lofts is good.

irishbuckeye71:

My son toured The Village at Science Drive and really liked it. They have 3- and 4-bedroom floor plans.

LifeMistake3674:

Boardwalk and Riverwind offer 4x4 units.

cheeseballs696:

All my friends who live at Lark do not like it, same with The Verge. EOS has terrible management and the worst maintenance. The Hub I have only ever heard bad stories from my friends who live there. It's really tough.

[deleted]:

At Knights Circle right now. Apartments are alright, though management is honestly dogshit. They're not assholes, but they're pretty disorganized. It takes a bit of effort to get anything done with them, but other than that it's fine here.

FoxyLood (OP):

We already passed on them.

Wild_Rover5298:

I would not recommend living at Northgate. I had a friend that lived there and their whole apartment had black mold issues among other things. Specifically, when they found the mold and reported it, they had to immediately get it taken care of with the apartment because of a mold addendum in the lease.

It is modern but not too bad on pricing at the moment. I would recommend one of the Accolades, either East or West, as the facilities are amazing and the apartments are nearly brand new with strong community support. I've also heard Tivoli is pretty good.

DarkStriderIDK:

Current Northgate resident here. I haven't had a mold issue before, but the reason I would advise against Northgate is that the internet is straight garbage. It cuts in and out multiple times a day. My roommates and I have repeatedly called both the office and the ISP and they refuse to inspect or acknowledge issues.

Wild_Rover5298:

I have heard that from my friend as well and how he had no internet for a straight week while they were putting in a new system.

Strawberry1282:

Northgate and Accolade are not usually considered the same pricing bracket. I paid around $1,100 for a bedroom in a 4x4 and I've heard prices have gone up. Though they have run specials from not selling out.

That being said, OP is looking for a 3x3, which Accolade only offers studios, 2x2s, and 4x4s.

I've heard decent things about Tivoli, but a huge con for most people is that it's unfurnished and I don't think it has individual leasing.

Wild_Rover5298:

Also, Plaza on University is pretty good.

Strawberry1282:

You're probably best posting your budget instead of "not too modern looking." I imagine you're trying to avoid luxury pricing.

Off the top of my head, Knights Circle, Tivoli, Mercury, Verge, and Lark all have 3-bedroom floor plans.

I had a 3-bedroom at The Hub and enjoyed it. It's not the newest complex (built in 2018), but it is on the more modern end. From what I recall it was considered pricier at the time, though not as expensive as Current, Nine, or Accolade.